The Project Gutenberg eBook of Cinderella; Or, The Little Glass Slipper, and Other Stories
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Cinderella; Or, The Little Glass Slipper, and Other Stories

Author: Anonymous

Release date: January 1, 1999 [eBook #1599]
                Most recently updated: October 8, 2016

Language: English

Credits: Produced by Dianne Bean, and David Widger


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CINDERELLA; OR, THE LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER, AND OTHER STORIES ***




Produced by Dianne Bean





CINDERELLA OR, THE LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER AND OTHER STORIES

By Anonymous Authors



     Cinderella; or, The Little Glass Slipper
     Fanny’s Telephone Order
     The Raindrops’ New Dresses
     Sir Gobble
     What is It?
     John’s Bright Idea
     A Sad Thanksgiving Party
     Guy and the Bee
     Mean Boy
     Naughty Pumpkin’s Fate
     Something About Fires
     The lee-King’s Reign.
     Malmo, the Wounded Rat
     Mama’s Happy Christmas
     Cured of Carelessness
     A Visit from a Prince
     Stringing Cranberries
     Christmas in California
     A Troublesome Call
     Bertie’s Corn-Popper
     Fire! Fire! Fire!
     The Dolls and the Other Dolls
     Why Did Mamma Change Her Mind?
     Clara’s Funeral.
     The Chickadee-Dee.
     The Children’s Party
     Brave Tomasso
     Tommy Frost Sees a Bear
     Myself
     Two Strange Sights
     A Cat’s Instincts
     Diliah’s New Year’s Presents
     Night Flowers
     The First Snow Storm
     Fred’s Stolen Ride
     A Valentine Party
     The Venturesome Rat
     The Bear’s Feast
     Babie’s Curls.
     The Red Apples
     Bubbles
     A Horse Who Wore Snow Shoes
     The Angry Bobolink
     How Hiram Spent His Shrimp Money
     The Ant’s House
     The Foolish Pug
     The Silhouette Party
     The Snow Birds
     A Kind Heart
     Towser Talks
     Just as She Pleased




CINDERELLA; OR THE LITTLE GLASS SLIPPER.

Once there was a gentleman who married for his second wife the proudest
and most haughty woman that was ever seen. She had by a former husband
two daughters of her own humor, who were, indeed, exactly like her in
all things. He had likewise, by another wife, a young daughter, but of
unparalleled goodness and sweetness of temper, which she took from her
mother, who was the best creature in the world.

No sooner were the ceremonies of the wedding over but the mother-in-law
began to show herself in her true colors. She could not bear the good
qualities of this pretty girl, and the less because they made her own
daughters appear the more odious. She employed her in meanest work of
the house: she scoured the dishes, tables, etc., and scrubbed madam’s
chamber and those of misses, her daughters; she lay up in a sorry
garret, upon a wretched straw bed, while her sisters lay in fine rooms,
with floors all inlaid, upon beds of the very newest fashion, and where
they had looking-glasses so large that they might see themselves at
their full length from head to foot.

The poor girl bore all patiently and dared not tell her father, who
would have rattled her off; for his wife governed him entirely. When she
had done her work she used to go into the chimney-corner and sit down
among cinders and ashes, which made her commonly be called a cinder
maid; but the youngest, who was not so rude and uncivil as the eldest,
called her Cinderella. However, Cinderella, notwithstanding her mean
apparel, was a hundred times handsomer than her sisters, though they
were always dressed very richly.

It happened that the King’s son gave a ball and invited all persons, of
fashion to it. Our young misses were also invited, for they cut a very
grand figure among the quality. They were mightily delighted at this
invitation, and wonderfully busy in choosing out such gowns, petticoats,
and head-clothes as might become them. This was a new trouble to
Cinderella, for it was she who ironed her sisters’ linen and plaited
their ruffles. They talked all day long of nothing but how they should
be dressed.

“For my part,” said the eldest, “I will wear my red velvet suit with
French trimming.”

“And I,” said the youngest, “shall have my usual petticoat; but then,
to make amends for that, I will put on my gold-flowered manteau and my
diamond stomacher, which is far from being the most ordinary one in the
world.”

They sent for the best tire-woman they could get to make up their
head-dresses and adjust their double pinners, and they had their red
brushes and patches from Mademoiselle de la Poche.

Cinderella was likewise called up to them to be consulted in all these
matters, for she had excellent notions and advised them always for the
best, nay, and offered her services to dress their heads, which they
were very willing she should do. As she was doing this they said to her:

“Cinderella, would you not be glad to go to the ball?”

“Alas!” said she, “you only jeer me. It is not for such as I am to go
thither.”

“Thou art in the right of it,” replied they. “It would make the people
laugh to see a cinder wench at a ball.”

Any one but Cinderella would have dressed their heads awry, but she was
very good and dressed them perfectly well. They were almost two days
without eating, so much they were transported with joy. They broke above
a dozen of laces in trying to be laced up close, that they might have a
fine, slender shape, and they were continually at their looking-glass.
At last the happy day came. They went to Court, and Cinderella followed
them with her eyes as long as she could, and when she had lost sight of
them she fell a-crying.

Her Godmother, who saw her all in tears, asked her what was the matter.

“I wish I could--I wish I could--”

She was not able to speak the rest being interrupted by her tears and
sobbing.

This Godmother of hers, who was a fairy, said to her: “Thou wishest thou
could’st go to the ball. Is it not so?”

“Y--es,” cried Cinderella, with a great sigh.

“Well,” said her Godmother, “be but a good girl, and I will contrive
that thou shalt go.” Then she took her into her chamber and said to her:
“Run into the garden and bring me a pumpkin.”

Cinderella went immediately to gather the finest she could get and
brought it to her Godmother, not being able to imagine how this pumpkin
could make her go to the ball. Her Godmother scooped out all the inside
of it, having left nothing but the rind; which done, she struck it with
her wand, and the pumpkin was instantly turned into a fine coach, gilded
all over with gold.

She then went to look into her mousetrap, where she found six mice all
alive, and ordered Cinderella to lift up a little the trapdoor, when,
giving each mouse as it went out a little tap with her wand, the mouse
was that moment turned into a fine horse, which altogether made a very
fine set of six horses of a beautiful mouse-colored dapple-gray. Being
at a loss for a coachman, Cinderella said:

“I will go and see if there is never a rat in the rattrap--we may make a
coachman of him.”

“Thou art in the right,” replied her Godmother. “Go and look.”

Cinderella brought the trap to her, and in it there were three huge
rats. The fairy made choice of one of the three which had the largest
beard, and having touched him with her wand he was turned into a fat,
jolly coachman, who had the smartest whiskers eyes ever beheld. After
that she said to her:

“Go again into the garden, and you will find six lizards behind the
watering-pot. Bring them to me.”

She had no sooner done so but her Godmother turned them into six
footmen, who skipped up immediately behind the coach, with their liveries
all bedaubed with gold and silver, and clung as close behind each other
as if they had done nothing else their whole lives. The fairy then said
to Cinderella:

“Well, you see here an equipage fit to go to the ball with. Are you not
pleased with it?”

“Oh! yes,” cried she; “but must I go thither as I am, in these dirty
rags?”

Her Godmother only just touched her with her wand, and at the same
instant her clothes were turned into cloth-of-gold and silver, all beset
with jewels. Ah! who can describe a robe made by the fairies? It was
white as snow, and as dazzling; round the hem hung a fringe of diamonds,
sparkling like dewdrops in the sunshine. The lace about the throat and
arms could only have been spun by fairy spiders. Surely it was a dream!
Cinderella put her daintily gloved hand to her throat, and softly
touched the pearls that encircled her neck.

“Come, child,” said the Godmother, “or you will be late.”

As Cinderella moved, the firelight shone upon her dainty shoes.

“They are of diamonds,” she said.

“No,” answered her Godmother, smiling; “they are better than that--they
are of glass, made by the fairies. And now, child, go, and enjoy
yourself to your heart’s content.”

But her Godmother, above all things, commanded her not to stay till
after midnight, telling her at the same time that if she stayed one
moment longer the coach would be a pumpkin again, her horses mice, her
coachman a rat, her footmen lizards, and her clothes become just as they
were before.

She promised her Godmother she would not fail of leaving the ball before
midnight, and then away she drives, scarce able to contain herself for
joy. The King’s son, who was told that a great Princess, whom nobody
knew, was come, ran out to receive her. He gave her his hand as she
alighted out of the coach; and led her into the hall among all the
company. There was immediately a profound silence, they left off
dancing, and the violins ceased to play, so attentive was every one to
contemplate the singular beauties of the unknown newcomer. Nothing was
then heard but a confused noise of “Ha! how handsome she is! Ha! how
handsome she is!”

The King himself, old as he was, could not help watching her and telling
the Queen softly that it was a long time since he had seen so beautiful
and lovely a creature.

All the ladies were busied in considering her clothes and headdress,
that they might have some made next day after the same pattern, provided
they could meet with such fine materials and as able hands to make them.

The King’s son conducted her to the most honorable seat and afterward
took her out to dance with him. She danced so very gracefully that they
all more and more admired her. A fine collation was served up, whereof
the young Prince ate not a morsel, so intently was he busied in gazing
on her.

She went and sat down by her sisters, showing them a thousand
civilities, giving them part of the oranges and citrons which the Prince
had presented her with, which very much surprised them, for they did not
know her. While Cinderella was thus amusing her sisters, she heard the
clock strike eleven and three-quarters, whereupon she immediately made a
courtesy to the company and hastened away as fast as she could.

Being got home, she ran to seek out her Godmother, and after having
thanked her she said she could not but heartily wish she might go next
day to the ball, because the King’s son had desired her.

As she was eagerly telling her Godmother what had passed at the ball her
two sisters knocked at the door, which Cinderella ran and opened.

“How long you have stayed!” cried she, gaping, rubbing her eyes, and
stretching herself as if she had been just waked out of her sleep. She
had not, however, had any manner of inclination to sleep since they went
from home.

“If thou hadst been at the ball,” said one of her sisters, “thou
would’st not have been tired with it. There came thither the finest
Princess, the most beautiful ever was seen with mortal eyes. She showed
us a thousand civilities and gave us oranges and citrons.”

Cinderella seemed very indifferent in the matter. Indeed, she asked them
the name of that Princess, but they told her they did not know it, and
that the King’s son was very uneasy on her account, and would give all
the world to know who she was. At this Cinderella, smiling, replied:

“She must, then, be very beautiful indeed. How happy you have been!
Could not I see her? Ah! dear Miss Charlotte, do lend me your yellow
suit of clothes which you wear every day.”

“Ay, to be sure,” cried Miss Charlotte; “lend my clothes to such it
dirty cinder maid as thou art! I should be a fool.”

Cinderella expected well such answer and was very glad of the refusal,
for she would have been sadly put to it if her sister had lent her what
she asked for jestingly.

The next day the two sisters were at the ball, and so was Cinderella,
but dressed more magnificently than before. The King’s son was always by
her, and never ceased his compliments and kind speeches to her, to whom
all this was so far from being tiresome that she quite forgot what her
Godmother had recommended to her, so that she at last counted the clock
striking twelve when she took it to be no more than eleven. She then
rose up and fled as nimble as a deer. The Prince followed, but could
not overtake her. She left behind one of her glass slippers, which the
Prince took up most carefully. She got home, but quite out of breath,
and in her old clothes, having nothing left her of all her finery but
one of the little slippers, fellow to that she dropped. The guards at
the palace gate were asked if they had not seen a Princess go out.

They said they had seen nobody go out but a young girl, very meanly
dressed, and who had more of the air of a poor country girl than a
gentlewoman.

When the two sisters returned from the ball Cinderella asked them if
they had been well diverted and if the beautiful Princess had been
there.

They told her yes, but that she hurried away immediately when the clock
struck twelve, and with so much haste that she dropped one of her little
glass slippers, the prettiest in the world, which the King’s son had
taken up; that he had done nothing but look at her all the time at
the ball, and that most certainly he was very much in love with the
beautiful person who owned the glass slipper.

What they said was very true, for a few days after the King’s son caused
it to be proclaimed, by sound of trumpet, that he would marry her whose
foot this slipper would just fit. They whom he employed began to try it
upon the Princesses, then the Duchesses and all the Court, but in vain.
It was brought to the two sisters, who did all they possibly could to
thrust their feet into the slipper, but they could not effect it.

On the following morning there was a great noise of trumpets and drums,
and a procession passed through the town, at the head of which rode the
King’s son. Behind him came a herald, bearing a velvet cushion, upon
which rested a little glass slipper. The herald blew a blast upon the
trumpet, and then read a proclamation saying that the King’s son would
wed any lady in the land who could fit the slipper upon her foot, if she
could produce another to match it.

Of course, the sisters tried to squeeze their feet into the slipper, but
it was of no use--they were much too large. Then Cinderella shyly begged
that she might try. How the sisters laughed with scorn when the Prince
knelt to fit the slipper on the cinder maid’s foot; but what was their
surprise when it slipped on with the greatest ease, and the next moment
Cinderella produced the other from her pocket! Once more she stood
in the slippers, and once more the sisters saw before them the lovely
Princess who was to be the Prince’s bride. For at the touch of the magic
shoes the little gray frock disappeared forever, and in place of it she
wore the beautiful robe the fairy Godmother had given to her.

The sisters hung their heads with sorrow and vexation; but kind little
Cinderella put her arms round their necks, kissed them, and forgave them
for all their unkindness, so that they could not help but love her.

The Prince could not bear to part from his little love again, so he
carried her back to the palace in his grand coach, and they were married
that very day. Cinderella’s stepsisters were present at the feast, but
in the place of honor sat the fairy Godmother.

So the poor little cinder maid married the Prince, and in time they came
to be King and Queen, and lived happily ever after.




FANNY’S TELEPHONE ORDER.

Little Fanny Desmond was a dear child, and, like a good many other
little children, she liked to do whatever she saw the grown people do.

She would listen with great interest when she saw her mother use the
telephone. She was especially surprised when her mother ordered things,
and later in the day they would be brought to the house.

“I wish I had a telephone of my own,” she said to her papa. “Mama just
puts her mouth up to that funny thing, and gets whatever she asks for.
Yesterday she asked somebody to send us ice-cream for dinner, and sure
enough, it came.”

Papa laughed. “It does seem a very convenient thing,” he said. “I will
try to arrange one for you.” So papa took a horn which had been put away
in a closet and hung it up where Fanny could talk into it. “There, that
shall be your own private telephone,” he said.

“Now, shall I get whatever I ask for?” said Fanny.

“Not if you ask for impossible things,” replied her papa.

“But what are impossible things?” asked Fanny.

“Well,” laughed papa, “I think if you should ask for the moon you would
not get it.”

“But I don’t want the moon,” said Fanny.

“Ask for something before I go down-town,” said papa.

Fanny thought a moment, and then spoke up quite distinctly:

“Please send me some peppermints, and some new shoes for my doll, and
a bunch of pansies for my mama, and a new bicycle for my papa,
and--and--that’s all this time. Good-bye.”

“That’s a very good order,” said her papa, “but kiss me good-bye, for I
must be off.”

About half an hour later the front door-bell rang. Very soon the
maid appeared with a package directed to Miss Fanny Desmond. In great
excitement, Fanny opened it. It was a box of peppermints. The child’s
delight was great, but when, in another half hour, there came a bundle
which proved to be a new pair of shoes for her doll, she was too happy
for words. But that surprise was hardly over when another package was
brought her. She opened it in great excitement, and behold there was a
bunch of beautiful pansies.

“They are for you, mama,” she cried, “and now everything has come but
papa’s new bicycle.”

Just then she looked out of the window, and there was her papa coming up
the drive on a fine new wheel. She rushed down to meet him, exclaiming,
as she threw herself into his arms:

“Oh, papa, papa, I did get everything; my telephone is beautiful, and
the man at the other end is just lovely!”

“Ah,” said papa, “I am delighted he is so satisfactory.”




THE RAINDROPS’ NEW DRESSES.

     “We’re so tired of these gray dresses!”
      Cried the little drops of rain,
     As they came down helter-skelter
     From the Nimbus cloud fast train.

     And they bobbed against each other
     In a spiteful sort of way,
     Just like children when bad temper
     Gets the upper hand some day.

     Then the Sun peeped out a minute.
     “Dears, be good and do not fight,
     I have ordered you new dresses,
     Dainty robes of purest white.”

     Ah! then all the tiny raindrops
     Hummed a merry glad refrain,
     And the old folks cried: “How pleasant
     Is the music of the rain!”

     Just at even, when the children
     Had been safely tucked in bed,
     There was such a rush and bustle
     In the dark clouds overhead!

     Then those raindrops hurried earthward,
     At the North Wind’s call, you know,
     And the wee folks, in the morning,
     Laughed to see the flakes of snow.




SIR GOBBLE.

Bessie Curtis was in a great deal of trouble. She was spending a year in
the country while her father and mother were in Europe. It was not that
which was troubling her. She liked the country, she loved her uncle and
aunt with whom she lived, and she heard every week from her father
and mother. But something disturbed her. As the summer passed, and the
autumn came, she had moments when she looked very sober. What was the
reason?

I will tell you.

Early in the spring her uncle had given her a young turkey.

“There, Bessie,” he had said, “that is one of the prettiest turkeys I
have ever seen. I will give him into your care, and on Thanksgiving Day
we will have him on the dinner-table.”

For some time Bessie fed the turkey every day without feeling
particularly fond of him. Very soon, however, he began to know her; he
not only ran to meet her when she brought him his corn and meal, but
he would follow her about just the way Mary’s little lamb followed HER
about.

Her uncle often called after her: “And everywhere that Bessie goes, the
turkey’s sure to go.”

Yes, round the garden, up and down the avenue, and even into the house
itself the turkey followed Bessie.

Then why was she so sad?

Alas! she remembered her uncle’s words when he gave her the turkey, “On
Thanksgiving Day we will have him on the table.”

Thanksgiving Day would be here in a week.

Now, if Bessie had been like some little girls, she would have told her
trouble to her uncle. But she never mentioned it to any one, although
she cried herself to sleep several nights before Thanksgiving Day.

At last the day came, and Bessie, instead of going out to the fowlyard
as usual, kept in the house all the morning. She was afraid that, if she
went, she would not find her beloved friend. Dinner-time came, and,
with a heavy heart, she seated herself at the table. Her uncle and
aunt noticed her sober face, and thought that she missed her father and
mother.

“Come, come,” said her uncle, “we must cheer up; no sad looks on
Thanksgiving Day. Maria, BRING IN THE TURKEY.”

Poor Bessie! she could not look up as the door opened, and something
was brought in on a big platter. But, as the platter was placed on the
table, she saw that it did indeed hold her turkey, but he was alive and
well.

She looked so astonished that suddenly her uncle understood all her past
troubles.

“Why, Bessie,” he said, “did you think I would kill your pet? No,
indeed, but I told you he should be on the table Thanksgiving Day, so
here he is.”

Then Bessie’s uncle struck the turkey gently with his carving-knife, the
way the queen strikes a man with a sword when she makes him a knight.

“Behold!” said Bessie’s uncle, “I dub you ‘Sir Gobble;’ you shall never
be killed, but die a natural death, and never be parted from Bessie.”




WHAT IS IT?

     What is that ugly thing I see
     Which follows, follows, follows me,
     Which ever way I turn or go?
     What is that thing? I want to know.

     If I but turn to left or right
     It does the same with all its might;
     It looks so ugly and so black
     When o’er my shoulder I look back.

     Sometimes it runs ahead of me,
     Sometimes quite short it seems to be,
     And then again it’s very tall;
     I don’t know what it is at all.

     I’ll climb into my little bed,
     And on my pillow lay my bead,
     For when I’m there I never see
     That thing in front or back of me.




JOHN’S BRIGHT IDEA.

Mrs. Meredith was a most kind and thoughtful woman. She spent a great
deal of time visiting the poor. One morning she told her children about
a family which she had visited the day before. There was a man sick in
bed, his wife who took care of him, and could not go out to work, and
their little boy. The little boy--his name was Bernard--had interested
her very much.

“I wish you could see him,” she said to her own children, John, Harry,
and Clara, “he is such a help to his mother. He wants very much to earn
some money, but I don’t see what he can do.”

After their mother had left the room, the children sat thinking about
little Bernard.

“I wish we could help him to earn money,” said little Clara.

“So do I,” said Harry.

For some moments John said nothing, but, suddenly, he sprang to his feet
and cried:

“I have an idea!”

The other children also jumped up all attention. When John had an idea,
it was sure to be a good one.

“I tell you what we can do,” said John. “You know that big box of corn
Uncle Sam sent us for popping? Well, we can pop it, and put it into
paper bags, and Bernard can take it round to the houses and sell.”

When Mrs. Meredith heard of John’s idea, she, too, thought it a good
one.

Very soon the children were busy popping the corn, while their mother
went out to buy the paper bags. When she came back, she brought Bernard
with her.

In a short time, he started out on his new business, and, much sooner
than could be expected, returned with an empty basket.

Tucked into one of his mittens were ten nickels. He had never earned so
much money before in his life. When he found that it was all to be his,
he was so delighted he could hardly speak, but his bright smiling face
spoke for him. After he had run home to take the money to his mother,
John said:

“We have corn enough left to send Bernard out ever so many times. May we
do it again?”

“Yes,” said Mrs. Meredith, “you may send him every Saturday morning, if
you will pop the corn for him yourselves. John, will you agree to take
charge of the work?”

“Indeed I will,” replied John, and he kept his word. For many weeks,
every Saturday morning, no matter what plan was on foot, no matter how
good the coasting or skating, he saw that the corn was all popped, the
paper bags filled, and arranged in the basket when Bernard arrived.

People began to watch for the “little pop-corn boy,” and every week he
had at least fifty cents to take home, and often more. And all this was
because of John’s bright idea, and the way he carried it out.




A SAD THANKSGIVING PARTY.

     Four hungry-looking animals
     All seated in a row;
     Why does not some one speak to them?
     That’s what I want to know.

     They all of them were bidden to
     A fine Thanksgiving feast,
     And now, it seems to me, their host
     Might welcome them, at least.

     ‘Twas Master Pug invited them,
     Why does he not appear?
     ‘Tis plain they think his absence looks
     Extremely rude and queer.

     Alas! poor Pug’s in trouble sore,
     The host he cannot play;
     No feast for self or friends has he
     On this Thanksgiving Day.

     He saw a turkey, large and fat,
     Upon the kitchen shelf.
     “That’s just the very thing I want,”
      Said he unto himself.

     He caught the turkey, but the cook
     Caught him with firmer grasp,
     And shook him till he could not bark
     But only choke and gasp.

     Meanwhile, those hungry animals,
     Who’d waited there in vain,
     Declared they never would be guest
     Of Mr. Pug again.




GUY AND THE BEE

     One day a jolly bumble-bee,
     In coat of black and yellow,
     Got caught inside a window-pane;
     The silly little  fellow.

     He buzzed and buzzed against the glass,
     To Guy’s great enjoyment,
     Who thought to watch this funny thing
     Was just the best employment.

     But soon to touch those gauzy wings,
     Became Guy’s great desire,
     Although mama had told him that
     A bee could sting like fire.

     But Guy, silly as the bee,
     Paid no heed to mama,
     He touched the bee, then gave a howl
     Which could be heard afar.

     Mama a soothing poultice mixed,
     And on his finger laid.
     “Another time you’ll be more wise,”
      Was everything she said.




A MEAN BOY.

Harry Burton woke one night and heard a strange noise in his closet. He
got out of bed, crossed the floor in his bare feet, and carefully opened
the closet door. The noise stopped, instantly.

“Ah!” said Harry, “I knew it was mice made that noise. How I wish I
could catch them.”

The next morning he told his mother about the noises he had heard.

“I will get you a mouse-trap,” she said.

“I don’t want the kind that kills the mice, I only want to catch them
and tame them,” said Harry.

His mother laughed and told him when he had tamed his mice he must keep
them well out of her way.

The trap was set, the mice were caught, and sure enough, in a short time
were so tame they would eat from Harry’s hand. He made a little house
for them, and kept in it his bedroom. Whenever he went out, he always
shut the door carefully.

Now it happened that among Harry’s acquaintances, there was one very
disagreeable boy. His name was Dick Taft. Harry did not play with him
very often, for he was so ugly it was hard to get along with him.

Dick never liked to be beaten at any game, and sometimes made it very
uncomfortable for the one who got ahead of him.

One day Harry happened to beat him at one of their school games. Dick
called after him when it was over, “I’ll pay you for this, see if I
don’t.”

Harry only laughed as he walked away going in the opposite direction
from his own house.

When he was out of sight, Dick ran to Harry’s house, made some excuse to
go up in his bedroom, and let in the big cat, who was eagerly watching
outside.

When Harry came home, the mouse house was open, and not one of his pets
was to be seen. The poor fellow was almost heart-broken. He asked every
one in the house who had left his door open. The maid told him she
thought it must have been that boy he sent up to his room.

She described the boy, and Harry knew in a moment that it was Dick Taft.

“So that is the way he paid me for beating him at a game,” cried Harry.
“Well, never again, so long as I live, will I play with a boy who is
mean enough to do such a trick as that.”

And he kept his word.



A NAUGHTY PUMPKIN’S FATE.

      A queer little pumpkin, a jolly fat fellow,
      Stood close to his mother so rotund and yellow.
      “What a stupid old place! how I long to aspire,”
       Cried he, “I was destined for something much higher.”

      “My son,” said the mother, “pray do be content,
      There’s great satisfaction in life that’s well spent!”
       But he shrugged up his shoulders, this pumpkin, ‘t is true,
      And acted just like some bad children will do.

      With a shout and a whoop, in the garden they ran,
      Tom and Ned, for they’d thought of the loveliest plan
      To astonish their friends from the city, you see,
      With a fine Jack-o’-lantern--“Ah, this one suits me!”

      Neddie seized the bad pumpkin, and dug out his brains,
      Till he felt so light-headed and brimful of pains;
      Then two eyes, a long nose, and a mouth big and wide,
      They cut in a minute, and laid him aside

      Until night, when they hung him upon a stout limb,
      With a candle inside; how his poor head did swim,
      As they twisted him this way, then twirled him round that,
      Till at last, with a crash, he fell on the ground flat,

      A wreck of the once jolly, fat little fellow,
      Who stood by his mother so rotund and yellow.
      Just then a lean cow, who was passing that way,
      Ate him up, just to finish HER “Thanksgiving Day.”




SOMETHING ABOUT FIRES.

It was a cold day. Fred was tired of reading, tired of looking out of
the window, and so he poked the fire for a change.

“I suppose there are a good many different sorts of fires,” he said to
his mamma, as he laid down the poker.

“Yes, indeed,” she answered. “It is very interesting to know how people
keep warm in all parts of the world, especially where fuel is scarce and
dear. In Iceland, for example, fires are often made of fish-bones! Think
of that. In Holland and other countries a kind of turf called peat is
dug up in great quantities and used for fuel. And in France a coarse
yellow and brown sea-weed, which is found in Finistere, is carefully
dried and piled up for winter use. A false log, resembling wood, but
made of some composition which does not consume, is often used in that
country. It absorbs and throws out the heat, and adds to the looks of
the hearth and to the comfort of the room.

“The French have also a movable stove, which can be wheeled from room to
room, or even carried up or down stairs while full of burning coke. In
Russia the poorer people use a large porcelain stove, flat on top like
a great table, with a small fire inside which gives out a gentle,
summer-like warmth. It often serves as a bed for the whole family, who
sleep on top of it.

“There are, besides gas-stoves, oil-stoves, various methods of obtaining
warmth by heated air and steam, and, doubtless, other devices that I
never heard of.

“In some countries, however, no fires are needed. In looking at pictures
of tropical towns you will at once notice the absence of chimneys.”

Fred looked admiringly at his mamma as she paused.

“There never was such a little mother,” he said; “you can think of
something to say about everything.”

His mamma was pleased at this pleasant compliment.

“Oh!” she replied, laughing, “I could go on and tell you more about
bonfires, beacon-fires, signals, drift-wood fires, and gypsy-tea fires;
but I have told you enough for to-day.”




THE ICE-KING’S REIGN.

     The sun had gone down with promises sweet,
     When, keen from the north, the wind
     Came blustering along on its coursers fleet,
     And left frozen tracks behind.

     Maude stood at the window; the moon shimmered down
     On whirling leaves, stiff and dead,
     All piteously driven; she turned with a frown,
     And soft to herself she said:--

     “The old tyrant Winter leaves nothing to prize,
     Leaves nothing that’s bright or fair;
     He has stolen the blue from the bending skies,
     The warmth from the earth and air.

     “The summer’s dear blossoms are withered and dead;
     My garden is brown and bare;
     The chipper of birds in the nest overhead
     Is hushed, for no birdlings are here.

     “The woodlands no longer are shady and sweet,
     Dry leafage encumbers the ground;
     The pathways, once verdant and soft to my feet,
     In fetters of ice are bound.

     “The pride of the barn-yard sits humped with the cold,
     One frozen foot under his wing;
     And the sheep huddle closely, for warmth, in their fold;
     The ice tyrant reigns as king.”

     She turns from this picture of ruin and death,
     And seeks the broad casement again;
     And, lo! from the dews of her wasted breath
     Great forests have grown on the pane.

     Such beautiful trees! such ferns! and such flowers!
     Such rivers and mountains bold!
     Such charming cascades! she gazes for hours,
     And worships the ice king cold.




MALMO, THE WOUNDED RAT.

A poor man saw, by the roadside, a large white rat. It seemed to be
dead. Moving it gently he found it was alive, but had a broken leg. He
took it up and carried it to his lonely home. He bound up the bruised
leg, fed the poor creature, and soon it was quite well.

Sam Tills trained the rat to gentle ways, and taught it many little
tricks. Malmo was the only company Sam had. He worked in a cotton mill,
and took Malmo with him. He rode in his master’s coat-pocket. It looked
droll to see his white head peeping out.

Sundays both went to dine with Sam’s sister. Malmo’s funny ways made
everybody laugh. When Sam said, “Malmo, go sit in my hat,” he went at
once. He curled himself up in it, and nodded off to sleep.

When his master said, “Malmo, we’re going now; slip in,” the droll pet
jumped from the hat, ran up to his pocket-nest, said good-by in his
own fashion, and was ready to start. Evenings, when Sam was reading or
singing from his mother’s hymn-book, Malmo had a nap on his master’s
head. When it was time to go to bed Sam stroked Malmo’s soft fur. The
rat rubbed himself against his master’s hand. It was their good-night to
each other. Then Malmo crept into his basket, and the candle was blown
out. Soon both were fast asleep.




MAMA’S HAPPY CHRISTMAS.

It had seemed to the little Wendell children that they would have a
very sad Christmas. Mama had been very ill, and papa had been so anxious
about mama that he could not think of anything else.

When Christmas Day came, however, mama was so much better that she could
lie on the lounge. The children all brought their stockings into her
room to open them.

“You children all seem as happy as if you had had your usual Christmas
tree,” said mama, as they sat around her.

“Why, I NEVER had such a happy Christmas before,” said sweet little
Agnes. “And it’s just because you are well again.”

“Now I think you must all run out for the rest of the day,” said the
nurse, “because your mama wants to see you all again this evening.”

“I wish we could get up something expressly for mama’s amusement,” said
Agnes, when they had gone into the nursery.

“How would you like to have some tableaux in here?” asked their French
governess, Miss Marcelle.

“Oh, yes,” they all cried, “it would be fun, mama loves tableaux.”

So all day long they were busy arranging five tableaux for the evening.
The tableaux were to be in the room which had folding-doors opening into
Mrs. Wendell’s sitting-room.

At the proper time Miss Marcelle stepped outside the folding-doors and
made a pretty little speech. She said that some young ladies and a young
gentleman had asked permission to show some tableaux to Mrs. Wendell
if she would like to see them. Mrs. Wendell replied that she would be
charmed.

Then mademoiselle announced the tableaux; opening the doors wide for
each one. This is a list of the tableaux: First, The Sleeping Beauty;
second, Little Red Riding Hood third, The Fairy Queen; fourth, Old
Mother Hubbard; fifth, The Lord High Admiral.

Miss Marcelle had arranged everything so nicely, and Celeste, the French
maid, helped so much with the dressing, that the pictures all went off
without a single mistake.

Mama was delighted. She said she must kiss those dear young ladies, and
that delightful young man who had given her such a charming surprise.

So all the children came in rosy and smiling.

“Why, didn’t you know us?” asked the little Lord Admiral.

“I know this,” said mama, “I am like Agnes. I NEVER had such a happy
Christmas before.”




CURED OF CARELESSNESS.

Mrs. Bertram sat reading a book one morning, or trying to. It was not
easy to do so, for her little boy, Roger, was out in the hall playing
with his drum. Suddenly the drumming ceased, and in a moment Roger
rushed into the room crying as if his heart would break.

“I’ve burst it. I’ve burst it,” he sobbed.

“Your drum,” asked his mother. “How did you do that?”

“I was beating it with the poker and the tongs and--”

“With the poker and tongs!” exclaimed his mother. “Why, where were your
drum-sticks?”

Then Roger stopped crying, and hung his head with shame.

“Where are your drum-sticks?” asked his mother, again.

“I--I--don’t know,” sobbed Roger.

“Have you lost those, too?” said Mrs. Bertram. She needed no words for
answer. Roger’s manner was quite enough. “You know, dear, what I said
would happen the next time you lost anything.”

“Yes,” said Roger, “I you said I must give away all my toys to some
little boys who would take care of them.”

“Yes,” said his mother. “I see you remember. I shall send them all
to-night to the Children’s Hospital.”

“But, mama,” said Roger, “if I don’t have any toys to take care of, how
can I learn to take care of them?”

Mrs. Bertram had to turn away so that Roger should not see her smile.

“I shall have to think of some other way to teach you to be careful. Now
go and bring me all your toys.”

Roger went out of the room to do as his mother said. When he had gone,
Mrs. Bertram sat thinking until he came back.

“I have decided that I want you to dust the library every morning.”

Roger looked astonished. “Boys don’t dust,” he said.

“Sometimes,” said his mother, smilingly. “Your Uncle Fred had to dust
his own room when he was at West Point. Now if you dust the library
every morning for two months faithfully, and do not break a single
ornament, I shall know you have grown careful in one way, and that may
help you to be careful in another.”

The next morning Roger began his work. At first he disliked it very
much, but after a while he grew very particular. It was not pleasant to
be without any toys, and he determined to earn them.

The day when his trial of two months would be up, would be Christmas
Day. He did not know if his presents this year would be toys or useful
things. All his mother had said about his work was, “My dear, you are
improving.”

Christmas night came, and with it a beautiful tree. Imagine Roger’s
delight when he saw on and about it new skates, a new sled, a new violin
and a new drum.

And up in the highest branches, in letters of gold, these words: “For
the boy who has proved he can be careful when he tries.”




A VISIT FROM A PRINCE.

Harry was playing with his letter blocks one afternoon, when a prince
came to visit him.

Harry knew the prince very well, indeed. As soon as the prince came into
the room Harry said:

“Hullo, old fellow, is that you?”

Was not that a very strange way to greet a prince?

And wasn’t it stranger yet for Harry to say next:

“Come, sit up, old boy, and give us your--”

Was it hand Harry was going to say? No, indeed, it was paw. “Sit up, old
boy, and give us your paw.”

Prince was a beautiful dog, as black as a coal. Indeed, his real name,
his whole name, was Edward, the Black Prince. Now you must ask somebody
to tell you about the man who was called the “Black Prince,” the man for
whom Harry’s dog was named.

When Harry asked Prince to give his paw, the dog did not do it as
quickly as he ought to have done.

Did Harry beat him for that? No, indeed. Did he say, “Never mind,
Prince, you need not obey me if you do not want to?” No, indeed, again.

He sat up himself, and then he made Prince sit up on his hind legs. Then
he ordered Prince to give his paw. Prince did so. Then Harry made him
do it again, then again and again and again, until the dog seemed to
understand that he must learn to obey when he was spoken to.

After Prince appeared to have learned that lesson quite perfectly, Harry
taught him something new.

He taught him to stand on his hind legs and hold a pipe in his mouth.

This he soon did so well that Harry clapped his hands and cried,
“Good, good, you smoke as well as his royal highness, the Black Prince,
himself.”

Which remark showed that Harry had not yet begun to study history. If
he had, he would have known that in the country where the Black Prince
lived, tobacco was never heard of until many, many, MANY years after his
death.
